# Red_Wine_Analysis_R_Programming
Target of this Project In this project, I will analyze the Red Wine Data and try to understand which variables are responsible for the quality of the wine. First I will try to get a feel of the variables on their own and then I will try to find out the correlation between them and the Wine Quality with other factors thrown in. Finally I will create a linear model to predict the outcome of a test set data............. 1)I saw that the Alcohol and Sulphates played a major role in determining alcohol quality. Also in the final linear model I made, I also plotted the error value against the quality which shows us the variation in the error percentage with different qualities of Wine. I think these three plots are very crtical plots for this project. 2)we see that the best quality wines have high values for both Alcohol percentage and Sulphate concentration implying that High alcohol contents and high sulphate concentrations together seem to produce better wines. Although there is a very slight downwards slope maybe because in best quality wines, percentage of alcohol is slightly greater than the concentration of Sulphates.3)We see that the error is much more dense in the ‘Average’ quality section than the ‘Good’ and the ‘Bad’ quality wines. This is evident from the fact that most of our dataset contains ‘Average’ quality wines and there is not too many data in the extreme ranges. The linear model with the R squared value for m5 could only explain around 33% change in quality. Also the earlier models clearly shows that due to the lack of information, it is not the best model to predict both ‘Good’ and ‘Bad’ quality wines.
